
Command line utility for Powerlaw Noise (PLN) generation
=======================================

NAME
----

PLN_Generator - Powerlaw noise generator

SYNOPSIS
--------

`PLN_Generator` [`--help`] [`--verbose`] [`--very-verbose`] ...  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--sampling-frequency` | `--fs` *frequency*] ...   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--pln-filter-method` | `--plnm` *method*] [`--qd` *variance*] [`--alpha` *alpha*] [`--kw-filter-length` | `--kwl` *length*] ...  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--high-pass-filter-method` | `--hpm` *method*] [`--high-pass-f-c-nom` | `--hpfc` *nominal_frequency*] [`--high-pass-filter-length` | `--hpl` *length*] ...   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--interpolation-method` | `--im` *method*] [`--interpolation-frequency` | `--if` *frequency*] ...  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--number-of-samples` | `--ns` *number*] [`--segment-length` | `--sl` *length*] [`--seed` *seed-value*] ...  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [`--output-filename` | `--of` *path_to_file*]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

The program `PLN_Generator` serves as a simple demonstration for the `libPLN´ library.
Its purpose is to generate powerlaw noise (PLN) in the form of time deviation values.
The noise is generated by producing white noise and filtering it with a special filter.
Supported filter types are: 

 * The Kasdin/Walter method as described in [1]
 * Recursive filters for special noise classes (random walk, white FM and white PM noise)

[1] N.Jeremy Kasdin and Todd Walter, *Discrete Simulation of Powerlaw Noise*, 1992

OPTIONS
-------

### Generic options

`--help`
  Print help about the individual command line parameters.

`--verbose`
  Be verbose during execution, mainly about the selected configuration parameters.
  Default value:

`--very-verbose`
  Be really verbose, including run time information. This will produce a lot of output.
  Default value:

### Sampling options
`--sampling-frequency`, `--fs` *frequency*
  The simulated sampling frequency. Currently this is only relevant if interpolation is used.
  Otherwise, the generated output may be interpreted as having been sampled at any frequency.
  The frequency may be given as a double value without a unit, in which case it will be interpreted as Hertz.
  It may have also have a unit suffix.
  Supported suffixes are `GHz`, `MHz`, `kHz`, `Hz` and `mHz`.
  Suffixes have to be attached without a space between the number and the suffix.
  Example: `3.7kHz`
  Default value: `1MHz`

### Powerlaw noise filtering options
`--pln-filter-method`, `--plnm` *method*
  The method that is used to generate powerlaw noise.
  Supported options are `kasdin-walter` and `recursive`.
  The `recursive` method works only with alpha values of -2.0, 0.0 and 2.0 (random walk noise, whit FM noise and white PM noise).
  The `kasdin-walter` method works for any alpha values in the the interval between [-2.0,0.0].
  Default value: `recursive`

`--qd` *variance*
  The standard variance of the white noise that is used as input for the powerlaw noise filter.
  Default value: `1E-9`

`--alpha` *alpha*
  The alpha value for the resulting powerlaw noise.
  The power spectral density of the fractional frequency deviation of the resulting noise will behave as Sy ~ f^alpha.
  Allowed values for alpha are floating point numbers in the interval [-2.0,0.0] or the special names
  `wpm`, `fpm`, `wfm`, `fpm` and `rw` for the alpha values of the five common powerlaw noise types.
  Default value: `-2.0` (random walk)

`--kw-filter-length`, `--kwl` *length*
  In case the filter method is `kasdin-walter`, this parameter defines the length of the filter.
  Default value: `0`

### High-pass filtering options
`--high-pass-filter-method`, `--hpm` *method*
  The resulting powerlaw noise can be high-pass filtered.
  The available methods are `blackman` and `none`.
  Using `blackman` results in a simple Blackman windows function.
  Using `none` skips the high-pass filtering stage completely.
  Default value: `none`

`--high-pass-f-c-nom`, `--hpfc` *nominal_frequency*
  If the high-pass filtering method is not `none`, this defines the nominal cutoff frequency.
  Valid parameters are in the range (0.0,1.0).
  Default value: 0.3

`--high-pass-filter-length`, `--hpl` *length*
  If the high-pass filtering method is not `none`, this defines the length of the implemented high-pass filter.
  Valid values are odd unsigned integers.
  Default value: `1001`

### Interpolation options
`--interpolation-method`, `--im` *method*
  The final powerlaw noise may be upscaled using interpolation.
  Available methods are `linear` and `cubic-spline`.
  Default value: `linear`

`--interpolation-frequency`, `--if` *frequency*]
  The frequency to which the noise is upscaled.
  Supported suffixes are the same as for the simulated sampling frequency.
  Default value: use the same as for the simulated sampling frequency, which results in no upscaling. 

### Run configuration
`--number-of-samples`, `--ns` *number*
  Number of generated sample values (after interpolation).
  Default value: `1000000`

`--segment-length`, `--sl` *length*
  The output is not generated at once, but by combining individually produces segments.
  This parameter specifies the length of these segments. 
  Default value: If a filter is used (Kasdin/Walter or high-pass), a value is chosen larger then the filter length, otherwise it is `1000`.

`--seed` *seed-value*
  The seed value for the random number generator.
  Valid values are unsigned integers.
  If the seed is set to 0, a new seed value is automatically generated based on the current sytem time.
  Default value: 0 (time-based seed selection)

### Output related options
`--output-filename` | `--of` *path_to_file*
  Filename where the produced powerlaw noise is saved.
  Default value: `td.txt`  

AUTHOR
------

Wolfgang Wallner (wolfgang-wallner [AT] gmx.at)
